README.md, before:

# ceramicscalc

PHP package for representing ceramics analyses, materials, and recipes.

## Structure


```
data/       // Contains example data used in tests. 
src/        // Actual ceramicscalc code
tests/      // Tests
vendor/     // Dependencies
```

## Install

### Install PHP

ceramicscalc requires at least PHP version 7.0  (Really this should be bumped up to at least 7.2)  To install PHP, please follow the instructions at:

http://php.net/manual/en/install.php


### Install Composer

Composer is a dependency manager for PHP.  To install it, please follow the instructions at:

https://getcomposer.org

Test that composer can be run from the command line:

``` bash
$ composer
   ______
  / ____/___  ____ ___  ____  ____  ________  _____
 / /   / __ \/ __ `__ \/ __ \/ __ \/ ___/ _ \/ ___/
/ /___/ /_/ / / / / / / /_/ / /_/ (__  )  __/ /
\____/\____/_/ /_/ /_/ .___/\____/____/\___/_/
                    /_/
Composer version 1.7.2 2018-08-16 16:57:12
....
```

Now that composer is installed, try running the ceramicscalc tests:

``` bash
$ composer test
```

The test output will be shown on the screen.  The last line of this output should contain an OK if all tests passed:
``` bash
Time: 103 ms, Memory: 8.00MB

OK (40 tests, 132 assertions)
```


## Usage

Create a Primitive Material:
``` php
// Potash Feldspar
$percent = new PercentageAnalysis();
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::K2O, 16.92);
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::Al2O3, 18.32);
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::SiO2, 64.76);
$potash = new PrimitiveMaterial(1);
$potash->setName("Potash Feldspar");
$potash->setPercentageAnalysis($percent);
```
More Primitive Materials:
``` php
// Silica
$percent = new PercentageAnalysis();
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::SiO2, 100);
$silica = new PrimitiveMaterial(2);
$silica->setName("Silica");
$silica->setPercentageAnalysis($percent);

// Whiting
$percent = new PercentageAnalysis();
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::CaO, 56.10);
$percent->setLOI(43.90);
$whiting = new PrimitiveMaterial(3);
$whiting->setName("Whiting");
$whiting->setPercentageAnalysis($percent);

// Kaolin
$percent = new PercentageAnalysis();
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::Al2O3, 40.21);
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::SiO2, 47.29);
$percent->setLOI(12.50);
$kaolin = new PrimitiveMaterial(4);
$kaolin->setName("Kaolin");
$kaolin->setPercentageAnalysis($percent);
```

Create Composite Materials using Primitive Materials as components:
``` php
// Leach 4321
$leach4321 = new CompositeMaterial();
$leach4321->setName("Leach 4321");
$leach4321->addMaterial($potash, 40);
$leach4321->addMaterial($silica, 30);
$leach4321->addMaterial($whiting, 20);
$leach4321->addMaterial($kaolin, 10);

// Pinnell Clear
$pinnell = new CompositeMaterial();
$pinnell->setName("Pinnell Clear");
$pinnell->addMaterial($potash, 25);
$pinnell->addMaterial($silica, 35);
$pinnell->addMaterial($whiting, 20);
$pinnell->addMaterial($kaolin, 20);
```

Although component amounts usually add up to 100, this is not always the case:
``` php
// Pinnell Clear with amounts doubled
$pinnell = new CompositeMaterial();
$pinnell->setName("Pinnell Clear Doubled Amounts");
$pinnell->addMaterial($potash, 50);
$pinnell->addMaterial($silica, 70);
$pinnell->addMaterial($whiting, 40);
$pinnell->addMaterial($kaolin, 40);
```

Create a Composite Materials using other Composite Materials as components:
``` php
$leachPinnell = new CompositeMaterial();
$leachPinnell->setName("MIX of Leach 4321 and Pinnell Clear");
$leachPinnell->addMaterial($leach4321, 50);
$leachPinnell->addMaterial($pinnell, 50);
```

Create a Line Blend of two Materials:
``` php
$lineBlend = LineBlend::createLineBlend($leach4321, $pinnell, 10, 90, 10, 90, 10);
```

## Change log

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Testing

``` bash
$ composer test
```

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) and [CONDUCT](CONDUCT.md) for details.

## Credits

- [Derek Philip Au][link-author]
- [All Contributors][link-contributors]

## License

GNU General Public License v3.0. Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-travis]: https://img.shields.io/travis/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc/master.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-scrutinizer]: https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/coverage/g/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-code-quality]: https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-downloads]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc.svg?style=flat-square

[link-packagist]: https://packagist.org/packages/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc
[link-travis]: https://travis-ci.org/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc
[link-scrutinizer]: https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc/code-structure
[link-code-quality]: https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc
[link-downloads]: https://packagist.org/packages/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc
[link-author]: https://github.com/derekphilipau
[link-contributors]: ../../contributors

Commit message:

Update readme with composer install instructions

README.md, after:

# ceramicscalc

PHP package for representing ceramics analyses, materials, and recipes.

## Structure


```
data/       // Contains example data used in tests. 
src/        // Actual ceramicscalc code
tests/      // Tests
vendor/     // Dependencies
```

## Install

### Install PHP

ceramicscalc requires at least PHP version 7.0  (Really this should be bumped up to at least 7.2)  To install PHP, please follow the instructions at:

http://php.net/manual/en/install.php


### Install Composer

Composer is a dependency manager for PHP.  To install it, please follow the instructions at:

https://getcomposer.org

Test that composer can be run from the command line:

``` bash
$ composer
   ______
  / ____/___  ____ ___  ____  ____  ________  _____
 / /   / __ \/ __ `__ \/ __ \/ __ \/ ___/ _ \/ ___/
/ /___/ /_/ / / / / / / /_/ / /_/ (__  )  __/ /
\____/\____/_/ /_/ /_/ .___/\____/____/\___/_/
                    /_/
Composer version 1.7.2 2018-08-16 16:57:12
....
```

### Get the ceramicscalc code

Clone or download this ceramicscalc repository from Github.

### Install ceramicscalc dependencies

In the repository root directory, run composer install:
``` bash
$ composer install
```
You should see output like the following:

``` bash
$ composer install
Loading composer repositories with package information
Updating dependencies (including require-dev)
Package operations: 29 installs, 0 updates, 0 removals
  - Installing sebastian/version (2.0.1): Loading from cache
  - Installing sebastian/resource-operations (1.0.0): Loading from cache
  - Installing sebastian/recursion-context (3.0.0): Loading from cache
  - Installing sebastian/object-reflector (1.1.1): Loading from 
  ......
```

Now that composer is installed, try running the ceramicscalc tests:

``` bash
$ composer test
```

The test output will be shown on the screen.  The last line of this output should contain an OK if all tests passed:
``` bash
Time: 103 ms, Memory: 8.00MB

OK (40 tests, 132 assertions)
```


## Usage

Create a Primitive Material:
``` php
// Potash Feldspar
$percent = new PercentageAnalysis();
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::K2O, 16.92);
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::Al2O3, 18.32);
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::SiO2, 64.76);
$potash = new PrimitiveMaterial(1);
$potash->setName("Potash Feldspar");
$potash->setPercentageAnalysis($percent);
```
More Primitive Materials:
``` php
// Silica
$percent = new PercentageAnalysis();
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::SiO2, 100);
$silica = new PrimitiveMaterial(2);
$silica->setName("Silica");
$silica->setPercentageAnalysis($percent);

// Whiting
$percent = new PercentageAnalysis();
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::CaO, 56.10);
$percent->setLOI(43.90);
$whiting = new PrimitiveMaterial(3);
$whiting->setName("Whiting");
$whiting->setPercentageAnalysis($percent);

// Kaolin
$percent = new PercentageAnalysis();
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::Al2O3, 40.21);
$percent->setOxide(Analysis::SiO2, 47.29);
$percent->setLOI(12.50);
$kaolin = new PrimitiveMaterial(4);
$kaolin->setName("Kaolin");
$kaolin->setPercentageAnalysis($percent);
```

Create Composite Materials using Primitive Materials as components:
``` php
// Leach 4321
$leach4321 = new CompositeMaterial();
$leach4321->setName("Leach 4321");
$leach4321->addMaterial($potash, 40);
$leach4321->addMaterial($silica, 30);
$leach4321->addMaterial($whiting, 20);
$leach4321->addMaterial($kaolin, 10);

// Pinnell Clear
$pinnell = new CompositeMaterial();
$pinnell->setName("Pinnell Clear");
$pinnell->addMaterial($potash, 25);
$pinnell->addMaterial($silica, 35);
$pinnell->addMaterial($whiting, 20);
$pinnell->addMaterial($kaolin, 20);
```

Although component amounts usually add up to 100, this is not always the case:
``` php
// Pinnell Clear with amounts doubled
$pinnell = new CompositeMaterial();
$pinnell->setName("Pinnell Clear Doubled Amounts");
$pinnell->addMaterial($potash, 50);
$pinnell->addMaterial($silica, 70);
$pinnell->addMaterial($whiting, 40);
$pinnell->addMaterial($kaolin, 40);
```

Create a Composite Materials using other Composite Materials as components:
``` php
$leachPinnell = new CompositeMaterial();
$leachPinnell->setName("MIX of Leach 4321 and Pinnell Clear");
$leachPinnell->addMaterial($leach4321, 50);
$leachPinnell->addMaterial($pinnell, 50);
```

Create a Line Blend of two Materials:
``` php
$lineBlend = LineBlend::createLineBlend($leach4321, $pinnell, 10, 90, 10, 90, 10);
```

## Change log

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Testing

``` bash
$ composer test
```

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) and [CONDUCT](CONDUCT.md) for details.

## Credits

- [Derek Philip Au][link-author]
- [All Contributors][link-contributors]

## License

GNU General Public License v3.0. Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-travis]: https://img.shields.io/travis/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc/master.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-scrutinizer]: https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/coverage/g/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-code-quality]: https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-downloads]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc.svg?style=flat-square

[link-packagist]: https://packagist.org/packages/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc
[link-travis]: https://travis-ci.org/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc
[link-scrutinizer]: https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc/code-structure
[link-code-quality]: https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc
[link-downloads]: https://packagist.org/packages/derekphilipau/ceramicscalc
[link-author]: https://github.com/derekphilipau
[link-contributors]: ../../contributors
